welcome everyone to this week's IPL
d/deaf syn-coll is April the 27th 2020
and as every week we go over the stuff
that we've worked on the past weeks and
then discuss any open I notice we might
have everyone was attending please put
your name on the attendees list if you
haven't attended last week as your name
will already be there yeah so and of
course feel free to ask questions when
we've our updates or in between so I
have worked with myself and I have
worked in the past week I have a bit of
a discussion on FICA and Molly Koenig
and it's more like a multi codec
discussion in general with rod more or
less so we had discussing those things
on this issue and it's donal resolved I
still not sure that we agree or I agree
with other people but we'll see and then
I did a bit of jeaious I fell the
maintenance stuff I basically kind of
broke the world so if you did an NPM
install Jays IPs your thing didn't work
and because I did a pet release which
contained a broken change but I wasn't
off the book and change so and as if
anyone has worked on Jays ipfs there's a
huge dependency tree so it took a few
other releases and reverts and pet
releases and then major releases and
this basic took a day but now everything
is fine again and we're in a good shape
also things to who from the IPS team to
basically help me with those things and
yeah you're working again and then I
also spent finally time I get a
ILD still in the block api and now I'm
truly porting a small tool I used
javascript to build eggs from a text
file and it also uses dick chase on in
the night on the rust IP LD take chase
implementation had some weird error and
then I found the problem and I was like
why is it implement like this and then I
thought oh our spec is pretty bad so you
can't really implement de JSON based on
the spec because it's totally I'm not
specified so I spend time looking at the
spec and see that there's P I was open
from August last year and I tried to
push it through so I'm pretty close so
if I think Michael if you approve this
PR then I will just merge and then we
will be good and I have another PR open
for even more country stuff and then Dec
choice and should be fine and then I
will fix the roster notation and
probably I would expect oscillator
JavaScript and perhaps even Co
implementation needs to change a few
things to be spec compliant but again
like deck Chase is mostly used for
testing so I don't see a real urge in
like being fully spec compliant but
eventually we should and also um in
regards to this I plan to do some test
vectors probably starting with take
chase on so basically all
implementations were just reading files
encoded decoded see if the CID that you
it comes out matches to make sure you
are compliant I think this would be a
huge step forward because chrome is
really hard to for new language is to
implement stuff because you need to look
at the code of JavaScript augmentation
and probably then don't agree and then
you pick one and you can tell if that's
according to the spec because there's no
space so if we have test vectors I think
that will improve the story so that's
the plan and of course also finally
finishing up this block API which so far
looks good and feels good to code with
but just pushing it out
okay then was waiting longer than I
thought I would take so next one is Eric
so that's more cogent done this week
we've got lists that's very exciting we
already had maps and struck so this is
all of the basic recursive now have a co
gen and I also stamped out at long last
bites and flexibles and all the other
primitives so this is a lot of stuff
unions are still missing some of those
other fancy types so those are still
future work but a lot of the essentials
are now there's one other major caveat
which doesn't quite prevent this from
being used in some cases but like needs
to fix in the representations nodes
formats and lists do not recurse
correctly as you're stepping through it
will sort of forget that you're stepping
over representation knows and movers
return type level note interface and so
if you're traversing over some structure
where those happen to be the same thing
then you won't notice that but if you're
doing it over some structure where
you've got like oh I'm sure I'm over a
map and then I reaches struct on this
truck has a spring join representation
so it's a spring and autumn now then
you'll definitely notice because you'll
end up getting map in the mouth when you
should have gotten string so that needs
to be done soon fixing this in the most
obvious way is easy but I'm taking it a
little bit slow and not doing that quite
yet because the obvious way involves
many additional lines of generating code
and I'm getting to the point I'm wanting
to start trimming right now so I'm gonna
look for how to get this done with
hopefully as little code responsible
this is easier said than done because I
don't know starting to balance a lot of
different things like minimizing the
amount of code in the templates is
totally different than
code that it's generated and that in
turn sometimes has surprisingly little
correlation with how big of assembly and
like binary compiled size is generated
so I'm kind of trying to do my best on
this as I go but I might need to like
slow way down my back track and do some
more truly in order to get better
visibility on this in order to be able
to really go forward effectively so um
we'll see how that goes I'm not sure how
I'm gonna prioritize that either I might
just put that on the table until later
and just do the naive thing has a lot of
extra line will come just to be able to
demo we'll see and I did start trying to
deduplicate some of the template code as
well in places where it was obviously
possible got some nice progress on that
this week a lot to go because I have
been intentionally conferring it to all
of the aforementioned reasons of it just
being complex and it'll work on pushing
the note assembler generation of
interfaces the whole giant winter rework
into the graphs and levers which consume
it and that should almost be done but I
hadn't quite I got some test failures
that I can't quite make heads nor tails
on so I'm requesting some fire support
from Anna there hopefully that all ends
promptly assuming it does I'll go back
to Marco Jenna hopefully you have a
really big demos of that in some other
projects possibly the next week or so
weird very exciting no promises
that's my dream in and makes this
Michael yeah yeah so a couple things
lest we get started in on the J s multi
formats refactor stuff the approach that
I ended up having the take was just
rewriting all of it it turned out the
rewriting all of it was actually the
easiest way to go if you weren't
listening last week we need to move to a
model where we don't ship every code a
cover every base encoding library ever
function ever we you need to be able to
pass in the ones that you want support
for when you instantiate the block API
essentially this is for reducing bundle
size and just reducing like the code
that we ship around
in general the all of the different
multi-format stuff is so interconnected
that it would actually be a lot of work
to continue to support them as
individual libraries and also really
unnecessary like at least to some pretty
bad API patterns so what I end up going
with was a single library that
implements multi codec multi hash MC ID
altogether and multi base all of them
and so you load that up with all of the
implementations that you want for
different base encoding so whatnot and
then you can pass that around and get
everything you need including a nice CID
API however the CID API is going to take
like a ton of breaking changes when you
don't have the full table of multi floor
mats
you just can't support a lot of the
things that we used to do like you can't
do certain detection if something was a
multi based screen because you don't
know all of the possible prefixes
because you only know the ones that were
loaded you can't get the string of the
codec because you don't know the screen
from any codecs and rather than trying
to support these when you have that
information but not when you don't that
would lead to a lot of breaks down the
line when people are trying to access
those and it's not really the vision for
what CID is supposed to be right like I
should be able to represent a link to
you for anything and you should not have
to have a codec to decode anymore they
understand that it's a link to a thing
so anyway this is all going to turn into
a lot of changes down the line but it's
a really kind of important and necessary
move forward to get out of using all
this crazy stuff also the implementation
of all of these things is going to be
smaller than any of the individual old
libraries so we need to know they're all
combined in one library now it's
actually like not that much code so yeah
that's that's where that is that's uh my
github you can check it out if you want
halfway done also put some more time the
dag DB got the remotes working I thought
that was gonna take two days and it took
ten but it does work now so you can push
and pull like you can and get we can
push and call from different databases
there's like an HTTP API for it for all
the detection and everything you can
also do it with local databases for
pushing and pulling and it keeps around
the reference to the old states that you
can always do like efficient replication
back and forth and one of the really
really cool things about it is that it
you can also replicate a database to a
property rather than merging the entire
database in because it's a it's a die so
you can just lust databases indefinitely
so if you want to have a database that's
a collection of a bunch of other people
databases you can add them all as remote
and then plug them into all these
different properties and everything just
works and it does smarter merging as a
value like it does the full database
mode rather than just trying to swap out
the root Rev so yeah it's it's pretty
cool so that's moving along now I'm
gonna work on the indexes next that's
gonna be a big chunk of work so that's
it for code that I'm writing also we
don't have to do it today but at some
point we we need to have a discussion
about where the boundaries and the IP of
the project particularly what are we not
what are we not going to do
we are not going to have working
microphones are you still there
yep are you still I'm here I can hear
you can you Mina yeah you just you just
stopped yeah okay what are we not gonna
do so this has been sort of surfacing
and some of the conversations that we've
had lately around encryption and
identity although I think that we all
know that we're not going to add
identity but encryption starts to get
into some hairy areas especially like
and I didn't realize this when we
started it but selectors are a very
particular way of doing leads and
because they can read an entire dag if
selectors sort of represent the IP LD
way of reading things are like a
prescribed way of reading things like
encryption and figure out how they work
with selectors to apparently and I don't
think that we anticipated that or
thought that that would be a thing that
we were doing when we took on the
selectors work so I think even important
to our selective work is to figure out
what the boundaries there are as well so
yeah this is just a min to like keep in
mind and we should have the discussion
eventually but I want to figure out what
we aren't and as we take on more
ecosystem projects that are like the IDB
they're like using AI Kildee there we
have a clear understanding of like these
are not part of the project and this
whole kind of area of innovation happens
outside about guilty and I peel D is
just shoring up and solidifying what it
does that make sense
okay this is wrong so still going on
with the multi codec discussions as
Volker said
that is both extremely frustrating and
also very educational for the same time
and it's you know wading into things
that where we have opinions about how
things should be but not very deep
knowledge about how they need to be used
so I think this is a this is a good
process for us to go through but it is
it is frustrating and yeah yeah this
yeah there's some really interesting
context that was posted yesterday that
haven't been out to absorb yet but
that's it's still on the go
we'll get there somehow mostly of them
that have been doing Bitcoin stuff so
I've dumped the entire block chain onto
my desk two terabytes worth of binary
files the block blocks
coupled with compact Jason form of the
block and yes so that's just this that's
this as part of the process of being
able to pull pull it in so gets just
getting it out of the client to have it
on disk it makes us make some easier to
work with I have a complete block
printer working so I can replicate the
exact Jason that the Bitcoin client
prints out which is nice and which is
actually no mean feat because there's a
bunch of other so much stuff in there
there's very peculiar about how Bitcoin
represents certain fields and pulls them
apart into their own little thing but
it's nice to be able to verify that I
can take a block and what the Bitcoin
client client tells me it is and I can
do the exactly the same JavaScript and
say I know exactly what this is in watts
in every field I can also go do the
reverse I can take the data about what's
in the
turn it back into binary child and I've
verified that not through the whole
blockchain but oh no I sort of have
because I have run against the whole
block chain and use used my code to
verify that I can decode it and then
build the relevant Merkle trees and
verify their roots and and it's all good
and I just found one minor little thing
through that process but goodrich's
I'm pretty excited about then now I've
moved on to tinkering with J's I build a
Bitcoin which I'm which is probably
gonna get a quite an overhaul
so Volker expect some incoming either
one massive incoming pull request that
changes it very heavily or lots of
little ones but I think it'll just be a
big lump
so my next steps with all these are I'm
I need to generate a set of IP lb blocks
for each Bitcoin block it'll be a large
string of blocks and then make sure I
can do the reverse where I can take the
blocks and turn them back into the
negative Bitcoin format so given a
series of blocks or a navigatable IP LD
structure can I form it back into that
the instantiated format of the entire
block and can i navigate it with with
paths as well yeah and I have to
document all this as well so that it's
not just these blocks that are locked
away that a opaque and then I am gonna
make a car file per block so that I know
how big each in for me is and then
validate that I can do a round trip back
to the binary format and then I'm gonna
roll up multiple car files into the
packing size that we've agreed for this
archival purposes and forming
approximately one key color files
I don't know yet help me how many
there'll be of them but yeah you know
it's this again it's another educational
thing but I'm making really good
progress now which I'm not really happy
about so yeah I did thank you and yes so
feel free to do a huge PR so that we saw
so basically that the whole currently
has ILD Bitcoin code can't just go away
it's just yeah I'm thinking about
replacing your late maintain a role on
there with myself because it's gonna be
a bit too radical
yeah but I'm happy to do a review or
like probably really don't be like I
skimmed through your changes but yeah
I'm happy to do this and I'm also happy
too busy hand over the mint in a row and
which is basically also the same thing
what Michael is working on with you
three multi-format stuff and cremate him
off like also the CED stuff and so on so
I'm basically happy to be slowly get
face down and so I can concentrate on
the rest stuff and you take over that
childhood stuff so yeah it's cool any
updates from anywhere else all of us
anyone to share anything or any
questions or requests or news okay cool
then things everyone for attending and
yeah we are less than half an hour in
that's great I am so yeah things are
done for a time and see you all next
week
goodbye